XS✔ ◾ Create rule.md (#7527)
SSWConsulting/SSW.Rules.Content: rules/when-to-use-canva/rule.md

---
type: rule
title: Content - Do you know when to use Canva?
uri: when-to-use-canva
authors:
  - title: Asher Paris
    url: https://ssw.com.au/asher-paris
related:
  - use-memes-as-part-of-your-business-social-media-content

>   - rules-to-better-designers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

guid: b9f9a660-5eab-4f6c-af8f-a9f35cd45df2
---

Canva is an intuitive online tool for creating images and crafty digital designs, particularly is effective for crafting engaging social media memes. However, it's not always the right tool for every design need. Which is why it's important to use Canva along aside design tools like Adobe, Figma and from time to time AI image generators.

<!--endintro-->

# Canva for Social Media: Best Practices

For intricate and complex designs requiring advanced editing or branding designers, professional software like Figma, Adobe Photoshop or Illustrator is more appropriate. Do not use AI-generated images for social media content, as the current quality and control do not meet our standards (Note: This policy may be updated as AI imaging technology evolves).

::: bad
![Figure: Bad example - Canva to create social media post](bad-social.png)
:::

Canva is great for creating memes due to its vast library of images, icons, and easy-to-use text overlay features. When crafting memes for social media, Canva’s templates can be a quick and effective starting point.

::: good
![Figure: Good example - Canva to create memes](good-meme.png)
:::

> Canva is an excellent tool for quick, collaborative, and cost-effective design needs, especially for creating social media memes. However, it's important to recognize its limitations and choose more advanced tools like Photoshop for complex designs. The use of AI for image creation in social media is currently not practiced, pending further advancements in technology.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
type: rule
title: LinkedIn – Do you use Creator mode?
uri: when-to-use-canva
authors:
  - title: Asher Paris
    url: https://ssw.com.au/asher-paris
related:
  - use-memes-as-part-of-your-business-social-media-content
  - rules-to-better-designers
  - 
created: 2023-12-13T13:42:55.753Z
archivedreason: null
guid: b9f9a660-5eab-4f6c-af8f-a9f35cd45df2
---

> Canva is an intuitive online tool for creating images and crafty digital designs, particularly is effective for crafting engaging social media memes. However, it's not always the right tool for every design need. Which is why it's important to use Canva along aside design tools like Adobe, Figma and from time to time AI image generators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Canva is an intuitive online tool for creating images and crafty digital designs, and is particularly is effective for crafting engaging social media memes. However, it's not always the right tool for every design need. Which is why it's important to use Canva along aside design tools like Adobe, Figma and from time to time AI image generators.
```

<!--endintro-->

# Canva for Social Media: Best Practices

> For intricate and complex designs requiring advanced editing or branding designers, professional software like Figma, Adobe Photoshop or Illustrator is more appropriate. Do not use AI-generated images for social media content, as the current quality and control do not meet our standards (Note: This policy may be updated as AI imaging technology evolves).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For intricate and complex designs requiring advanced editing or branding designers, professional software like Figma, Adobe Photoshop or Illustrator is more appropriate. Do not use AI-generated images for social media content, as the current quality is difficult to match to our professional style. (Note: This may be updated as AI imaging technology evolves).
```

::: bad

> ![Figure: Bad example - Canva to create social media post](bad-social.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Figure: Bad example - Using Canva for a complex design](bad-social.png)
```

:::

Canva is great for creating memes due to its vast library of images, icons, and easy-to-use text overlay features. When crafting memes for social media, Canva’s templates can be a quick and effective starting point.

::: good

> ![Figure: Good example - Canva to create memes](good-meme.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Figure: Good example - Canva to create simple memes](good-meme.png)
```
